android 13 (#3368)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/android/android_13.md

---
nav_title: Android 13 Upgrade Guide
article_title: Android 13 Upgrade Guide
page_order: 9
platform: 
  - Android
  - FireOS
description: "Android 13, SDK updates, changes to push permission, SDK compatibility, and more."
---

# Android 13 SDK upgrade guide

This guide describes relevant changes introduced in Android 13 (2022) and the required upgrade steps for your Braze Android SDK integration.

For a full Android 13 migration guide, see the [Android developer documentation][2].

<img src="https://developer.android.com/about/versions/13/images/timeline-desktop-en.svg" />

## Changes in Android 13

### Push Permission {#push-permission}

> Android 13 [introduces a major change][3] in how users manage apps that send push notifications. Once a user upgrades their device to Android 13, apps will be required to obtain permission before push notifications can be shown. 

Reviewer: Not sure how to word this better, but this isn't strictly true for upgrade cases on an existing push-enabled app (until the user opens the app again)

Author: ```suggestion
Android 13 [introduces a major change][3] in how users manage apps that send push notifications. In Android 13, apps will be required to obtain permission before push notifications can be shown. 
```

![example]({% image_buster /assets/img/android/android-13-push-prompt.png %}){: style="float:right;max-width:430px;width:50%;margin-left:15px;border:0"}

> This new permission follows a similar pattern to iOS and Web Push where you only have one attempt to obtain permission. If a user declines push (explicitly, or by clicking outside of the prompt), your app is now allowed to ask for permission again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This new permission follows a similar pattern to iOS and Web Push where you only have one attempt to obtain permission. If a user declines push (explicitly, or by clicking outside of the prompt), your app is not allowed to ask for permission again.
```

> **Note** Apps are granted a [temporary exemption][4] intended for users who have previously received push notifications prior to updating to Android 13. These users will remain eligible to receive push from your app until (A) they explicitly decline the permission prompt when it's shown (or within system settings); or (B) your app is opened for the first time after a user upgrades to Android 13.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note** Apps are granted a [temporary exemption][4] intended for users who previously had push notifications for that app enabled prior to updating to Android 13. These users will remain eligible to receive push from the app until (A) they explicitly decline the permission prompt when it's shown (or within system settings); or (B) the app is opened for the first time after a user upgrades to Android 13.
```

#### Permission Prompt Timing {#push-permission-timing}

**Targeting Android 13**

Apps targeting Android 13 can control when to request permission and show the native push prompt. If your user upgrades from Android 12 to 13, your app was previously installed, and you were already sending push, then you'll have [temporary permission][4] to show notifications until the user opens your app again since upgrading the device.

**Targeting Android 12 or below**

If your app does not yet target Android 13, then once a user upgrades to Android 13 they will automatically see a push permission prompt when your app creates its first notification channel (via `notificationManager.createNotificationChannel`). 

{% alert note %}

> Braze automatically creates a default notification channel if one does not already exist when a push notification is received. If you don't target Android 13, this will cause the push permission prompt to be shown which is required to show the notification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Braze automatically creates a default notification channel if one does not already exist when a push notification is received. If you don't target Android 13, this will cause the push permission prompt to be shown which is required to show the notification.
```

{% endalert %}

## Preparing For Android 13 {#next-steps}

> 

Author: ```suggestion

This guide will continue to update as new Android 13 beta versions are released. Please check back here for updates related to Braze compatibility with Android 13.

```

We strongly recommend that you prepare an Android 13 compatible build in time for the [Android 13 Platform Stability Milestone][5].

This will allow you to optimize your [push opt-in rates][6] by prompting users at more appropriate times, and will lead to a better user experience in how/when your app asks for push permission.

> 

Reviewer: We should ask them to watch for updates from us since most likely we'll require some dev work from our customers to fully support Android 13

---
nav_title: Android 13 Upgrade Guide
article_title: Android 13 Upgrade Guide
page_order: 9
platform: 
  - Android
  - FireOS
description: "Android 13, SDK updates, changes to push permission, SDK compatibility, and more."
---

> # Android 13 SDK upgrade guide

Author: ```suggestion

{% alert info %}
This guide will continue to update as new Android 13 beta versions are released. Please check back here for updates related to Braze compatibility with Android 13. (Last Updated: March 29, 2022)
{% endalert %}

# Android 13 SDK upgrade guide
```

---
nav_title: Android 13 Upgrade Guide
article_title: Android 13 Upgrade Guide
page_order: 9
platform: 
  - Android
  - FireOS
description: "Android 13, SDK updates, changes to push permission, SDK compatibility, and more."
---

> {% alert info %}

Author: ```suggestion
{% alert important %}
```
